1. We have been learning how and why social media platforms gather your data. Knowing what they do with it, and how it might influence your behavior, have you considered altering your social media use? Why (not)?

I have not considered altering my behavior. This is definitely an example of the privacy paradox discussed in the readings. I generally take great steps in protecting my privacy--preferring end-to-end encrypted messaging apps and running most cloud services I use off an old laptop instead of using Google etc's servers, for example. However, despite all this, Meta (due to Facebook and Instagram) knows a great deal about me--the cities I've lived in, the content I'm interested in, what I'm looking to purchase. Sometimes it's motivated by necessity and sometimes it's just a choice to focus on the short term gratification.

I have a Facebook account more out of necessity. I've used the Facebook marketplace to look for used bikes for myself and my friend. I've also used it to find a relet for the summer. Especially in terms of housing, I was unable to find a better platform with the same quality of both postings and review/filter features (so I can filter for scams). Here, I believe I made a balanced risk-benefit assessment and will continue using the service.

However, Instagram is definitely a clear example of the privacy paradox. I mainly use it for short-form content consumption between my friends and I. I have great relationships with people who don't use the app, so it's definitely not true that it's necessary or even important to strengthening friendships. I haven't considered changing my behavior since unfortunately the short-term gratification from the content has me hooked, and I do have shared inside jokes with my friends about the content we've shared. In short, the social aspect combined with the short-term gratification prevents me from properly making a risk-benefit assessment.

2. Do you think the privacy paradox applies to you and people your age? Is it generational, and only older people feel act paradoxically?

I don't talk to a diverse enough set of people my age about privacy to have a definitive stance on the applicability of the privacy paradox on people my age. However, at least among my friends, I think the privacy paradox applies. A few of us are very privacy oriented--minimizing cloud service usage, etc. However we all have Instagram accounts despite knowing the unscrupulous manipulation Meta has done.

Social scientist danah boyd's "It's Complicated" on teens and social media proposes the idea that teens simply have a different definition of privacy than previous generations, focusing more on privacy from authority rather than privacy from organizations. However, this book was published over ten years ago (at the peak of Facebook usage among teens) and before Cambridge Analytica, Rohingya, etc, so I'm not sure younger people are still as unconcerned about privacy from organizations. 

3. Provide at least one question for Friday's discussion.
